OASIS Omniverse/ODOOM/README.md, before:

# ODOOM – Doom + OASIS STAR API

**ODOOM** is a fork of [UZDoom](https://github.com/UZDoom/UZDoom) with the **OASIS STAR API** integrated for cross-game features in the OASIS Omniverse. Keys collected in **OQuake** can open doors in ODOOM and vice versa.

ODOOM uses a native Windows/SDL2 stack with proper sound, music, and mouse handling. By NextGen World Ltd.

## Quick start

1. **Prerequisites:** Visual Studio 2019+, CMake, Python 3, UZDoom clone (e.g. `C:\Source\UZDoom`). See [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md).

2. **Build:** From this folder run:
   ```batch
   BUILD ODOOM.bat
   ```
   Output: **ODOOM.exe** and DLLs in `ODOOM\build\`. Put your WAD (e.g. doom2.wad) there.

3. **Run:** Use **BUILD & RUN ODOOM.bat** to build (if needed) and launch, or run `build\ODOOM.exe` directly.

4. **STAR API:** Set `STAR_USERNAME` / `STAR_PASSWORD` or `STAR_API_KEY` / `STAR_AVATAR_ID` for cross-game keys and inventory.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md) | Full Windows setup, build, STAR API, troubleshooting |
| [CREDITS_AND_LICENSE.md](CREDITS_AND_LICENSE.md) | Credits to UZDoom and license obligations (GPL-3.0) |
| [RELEASE_NOTES.md](RELEASE_NOTES.md) | Version history and release notes |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute |
| [LICENSE](LICENSE) | License summary and link to GPL-3.0 |
| [FILES_AND_VERSIONS.md](FILES_AND_VERSIONS.md) | Full file list and why there are multiple version files |

## Version

Version and build number are set in **odoom_version.txt** (line 1 = version, line 2 = build). The build script regenerates headers and launcher text from this file.

## Cross-game keys

- ODOOM **red_keycard** ↔ OQuake **silver_key**
- ODOOM **blue/yellow keycard** ↔ OQuake **gold_key**

See [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md) for STAR API setup and in-game console commands (`star version`, `star inventory`, etc.).

Commit message:

Continued integrating STAR API into ODOOM and OQUAKE keys etc.
Also ported the C++ Star API wrapper to C# managed code so easier to maintain and more aligned with OASIS codebase, it uses AOT Native compilation so is minimal overhead, has many error handling/safe memory allocations/locks etc to be as performant and safe as possible for high pace games such as FPS games where it may be called lots such as picking up lots of items at once so also has a job batching system so the api/dbs etc are not hammered! lol

OASIS Omniverse/ODOOM/README.md, after:

# ODOOM – Doom + OASIS STAR API

**ODOOM** is a fork of [UZDoom](https://github.com/UZDoom/UZDoom) with the **OASIS STAR API** integrated for cross-game features in the OASIS Omniverse. Keys collected in **OQuake** can open doors in ODOOM and vice versa.

ODOOM uses a native Windows/SDL2 stack with proper sound, music, and mouse handling. By NextGen World Ltd.

## Quick start

1. **Prerequisites:** Visual Studio 2019+, CMake, Python 3, UZDoom clone (e.g. `C:\Source\UZDoom`). See [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md).

2. **Build:** From this folder run:
   ```batch
   BUILD ODOOM.bat
   ```
   Output: **ODOOM.exe** and DLLs in `ODOOM\build\`. Put your WAD (e.g. doom2.wad) there.

3. **Run:** Use **BUILD & RUN ODOOM.bat** to build (if needed) and launch, or run `build\ODOOM.exe` directly.

4. **STAR API:** Set `STAR_USERNAME` / `STAR_PASSWORD` or `STAR_API_KEY` / `STAR_AVATAR_ID` for cross-game keys and inventory.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md) | Full Windows setup, build, STAR API, troubleshooting |
| [CREDITS_AND_LICENSE.md](CREDITS_AND_LICENSE.md) | Credits to UZDoom and license obligations (GPL-3.0) |
| [RELEASE_NOTES.md](RELEASE_NOTES.md) | Version history and release notes |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute |
| [LICENSE](LICENSE) | License summary and link to GPL-3.0 |
| [FILES_AND_VERSIONS.md](FILES_AND_VERSIONS.md) | Full file list and why there are multiple version files |

## Version

Version and build number are set in **odoom_version.txt** (line 1 = version, line 2 = build). The build script regenerates headers and launcher text from this file.

## Cross-game keys

- OQuake **gold_key** and **silver_key** are shared to STAR inventory from ODOOM pickups.
- OQuake **gold_key** and **silver_key** are OQuake-only door keys (they do not unlock ODOOM doors).

See [WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md](WINDOWS_INTEGRATION.md) for STAR API setup and in-game console commands (`star version`, `star inventory`, etc.).
